All right.
So our current promise we'll get you a dog.
Promise is either resolved or rejected immediately.
There's nothing that takes time in this promise.
There's no real reason to use a promise.
We could just write a simple if else and just generate a random number on its own and print out code
depending on if random is less than five.
Do this thing.
Otherwise console that log no dog.
Pretty simple with what we've seen so far.
But now let's introduce some some delay so it takes longer.
What we'll do is just use a set time out to simulate the number of years it took my dad to finally reject
his promise of getting me a dog.
So I will keep this here.
So we have a record of it.
I'll duplicate it.
And then in here instead of just immediately resolving or rejecting let's do a set timeout and are set
time out we'll have a function.
And the delay will be five seconds and then in that function the callback I'll move my logic to pick
a random number and then either resolve or reject.
So now this promise takes five seconds before it's resolved or rejected.
Otherwise those first five seconds.
It's pending which we saw earlier.
So the DOT then code or the dot catch code whatever one of these runs depending on if it was resolved
or rejected it won't run for five seconds.
So let's try it out.
I refresh.
It takes five seconds to you do.
Come on.
There we go.
No dog.
If I refresh and I quickly take a look at we'll get you a dog.
It starts as pending for these five seconds.
It's pending.
Now it's been rejected one more time.
It starts as pending.
Hopefully this time it's resolved.
No.
OK.
One more time.
Come on come on.
Resolve it.
Get me a dog seriously three in a row.
How about now spending what the heck just resolve the joy.
Oh my goodness how many of these are going to be in a row just resolve please OK this is horrendous
luck
Oh my
pending Oh finally I just hit the absolute jackpot of rejected promises.
How many was that like eight nine in a row.
Oh what are the odds when I'm recording.
But we finally get it.
It starts is pending and then it's resolved.
All right.
So this is our first example of a promise it takes some time takes five seconds.
It's kind of simulating making a request and having to wait for that request to come back.
It's eventually resolved or rejected.
Yes.
We're just hard coding a five second delay for no reason.
But imagine that something has to happen over those five seconds.
Like we're animating something and we want to wait until the animation finishes which will return to
that was the original impetus for promises in this section.
We were doing a whole bunch of nested callbacks and it was hideous when we were moving that button across
the screen.
So another thing that we frequently do is return a promise from a function instead of just making one
promise like we have here we could instead just get rid of my variable define a function we'll call
this const make dog promise equals some function.
And this function will return a promise this exact promise.
We already have.
So we just write return.
So now I can call this function instead of we'll get you a dog.
I can do make dog promise dog then and I can actually just change this on like that.
I don't have to.
Well if I call make dog promise again and did catch that would be two completely separate promises and
they may not resolve they may not both resolve or both reject.
They could have different values but if we instead chain it like this we get around that problem.
And it's also just shorter and cleaner.
You could save the variable or the result to a variable you know the equals make dog promise and then
do it out then and deduct catch but this is just better.
There we go.
So let's test it out.
We'll wait five seconds.
Come on and there we go.
It was resolved so nothing major that we saw here except for the fact that one we can change dot then
and catch together without having to create a variable or without having to reference that promise again.
I can just put a dot catch after a dot then and only one of the other will run.
In this case my promise is either resolved or rejected.
If it's resolved this function runs here.
If it's rejected this function runs here and then the second thing we saw was that we can make a function
which returns a promise which is an extremely common pattern rather than creating a promise from scratch
and saving it to a variable.
Often we work with functions where we would call once we get to X use axioms dot get some U.R.L. read
scum that will give us a promise and we put a dot then in a dot catch after that.
So this function itself is not a promise.
We're executing a function which returns a promise just like we did here.
This returns a new promise.
It's either resolved or rejected eventually.
But in the meantime it's still an object.
It has a status of pending and when it is either resolved or rejected one of these will run.
OK.
So we have a lot more to cover.
So onwards we go.